This R script performs coarse-grain model simulations of protein flocks and their analysis by RICS. 
Protein flocks are simulated as single spherical "beads" that contain two different fluorescent proteins (P1 and P2) in a cytoplasmic volume of 1 um3 to produce a 1 um2 image (32x32 pixels) at 0.031 um/pixel. Independently of their association in flocks, protein molecule number is set to 10000/um3, very similar to those exhibited by glycolytic enzymes in yeast cells. The number of molecules (N1,N2) of the two fluorescent proteins in each flock are sampled from a normal distribution with given mean (N=N1+N2) and ratio (R=N1/N2) values, which can be modified to assess the behavior of the model. To provide protein flocks with Brownian movement the Euler scheme is used, i.e. the current state (Xi), the diffusion coefficient (D) and random Brownian draws (E) with mean 0 and variance 1 predict the next state (X(i+1)) at discrete time steps (dt) as follows: X(i+1)=X(i)+((2*D*dt)^0.5)*E.
D is inversely dependent on the Stoke’s radius and is approximated as a function of the number of protein molecules in the flock as D=D0*N^0.33, where D0 is the coefficient of diffusion for monomeric GFP in the cytoplasm (ca. 25 um2/s). Flocks are provided with pure reflection at the simulated volume boundaries.
Fluorescence snapshots at different times are generated in a pixel-wise manner at 31 nm/pixel by simulating photons emitted by the two proteins from the experimental focal volume with emission rates of 2 photon/molecule in a dwell time of 10 us. Photons are applied a Gaussian point spread function (PSF) and the corresponding sampling variance. Photon counts in pixels from consecutive snapshots taken at the chosen dwell time are used to generate a raster image. Thus, routinely simulated raster images containing 32x32 pixels are built from 1024 snapshots obtained every 10 uS. Finally, simulated raster images are used to perform RICS analysis.
